README.md, before:

# Cookbook Recipes 



---
## Description
Cookbook Recipes is a Back end web application created using a relational database that allows users to store and easily access cooking recipes. It contains recipe cards that include fields such as description of the recipe, ingredients, preparation steps, cooking time, and many more. A CRUD function is coded, which means the user can create, locate, display, edit, and delete records. The website has three pages: the homepage, which has a carousel slide of recipes, the recipe page where all recipes are stored and the new recipe page where the user can create any recipe they desire. Once the recipe is created, a recipe card is stored on the recipe page. 

---
## User Experience UX

### User's goal

 * The website's purpose is to allow the user to find share update and delete recipes. 


### Site owner's goal 

* Promote a brand of cooking tools.

---
## Design
   ### Colour Scheme
   * A background image showing a close up of cakes was used for the front end material 
   * Top navbar is colour #212121 (grey darken-4) with white text
   * Footer is colour #212121 (grey darken-4)   with white text
   * Form on add recipe page is colour #e3f2fd (blue lighten-5) with black text
   * Card is colour #212121 (grey darken-4) with white text and contains the edit button #2962ff  (btn blue accent-4) 
    and delete button (btn red)
---
## Features
  * Responsive on all device sizes 

  * Interactive elements
  ---
  ## Technologies Used 
  ### Languages Used
   * HTML5
   * CSS3
   * JavaScript
   * Python+Flask
   * PostgreSQL
---
## Frameworks
 * Materialize 1.0- Materialize is a modern responsive CSS framework based on Materialize Design which was used for this project mainly for
   the website's responsiveness. 
---
## Wireframes 
![New Wireframe 1](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/0e202e17-0472-41c5-86cb-353694c3c958)
![New Wireframe 2](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/977d8344-80c4-4224-a424-f72ebe5076a9)
![New Wireframe 3](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/b9b7f2c8-ad10-474b-b848-f18e561b8e51)
![New Wireframe 4](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/6880ab71-1385-4e96-93ee-4299f45fbfab)
![New Wireframe 5](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/15271c07-62b8-49d6-8281-8a1fed8ef921)
![New Wireframe 6](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/9096820d-63ed-453e-9e9d-37ff4573155f)
![New Wireframe 7](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/eb6a691c-9093-4a84-bc1d-4fbe62c626c7)
![New Wireframe 8](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/7e8e54e4-0215-4f9f-a4a4-2235031a4e8a)
![New Wireframe 9](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/513e4beb-ac3f-4780-9b14-e3e2d78bb5a3)
![New Wireframe 10](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/787ef0d3-e120-4d0a-847f-fba184abb742)
![New Wireframe 11](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/9bdeeed6-deed-451c-9c7d-4a2e5b91d837)
![New Wireframe 12](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/d3d476fd-d0a7-4ec5-8669-cb531e5887c1)

---
## Relationship Diagram (SQL)
This is the current setup of the relationship diagram used to build the relationship ids for the application.
![drawSQL-recipe-diagram-export-2023-09-23](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/e9c0ac21-efd0-4a8c-94d5-37bb5943c916)

This setup would be used for future developments to present additional elements.   
![drawSQL-recipe-diagram-export-2023-08-16](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/affc501c-67e3-442a-8442-b1f5eb7baff6)

---
## Testing 
### Manual testing

### CI Python Linter

All Python codes were tested using CI Python Linter here are screenshots of the error results
![init_py file testing results ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/f3adbc61-bfd2-4477-b259-bd19d6564fa4)
![routes file test results 2 ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/8aed67c7-d035-44a3-b17f-6a3397756a1c)
![routes file test results 1](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/55ed35ed-ffe6-4aaf-9967-316a6138d1d1)
![models file testing results ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/18b4c82c-cfdd-4272-b7d9-7eb15f5a7d11)
![run py file test results ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/a52f1c7b-7323-4a26-a140-56ba03ed6e7f) 

These are the screenshots that show resolved errors
![init py no errors](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/49b3bf8d-c594-40d5-b5cd-e65146007b50) 
![no errors route py file ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/d9e53a9a-1938-459d-8342-d081653491e6)
![run py no errors found ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/b3ec0e0a-02db-407c-ba75-4b554ce04e24)
![models (modified) ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/015afc4e-b546-4d68-836b-5fc4cfab84b5)

### JS HINT 
JS Hint was used to test JavaScript codes and came up with these results shown below 
![js validator](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/d8548f0e-91dc-4665-ab1c-6ec39c4d0996) 

Here is the modified verison of JavaScript code. All errors of code couldn't be fixed due to the style of code materialize structures
its code.
![js validator (modified)](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/b4ca1dfa-e810-494f-9e6a-42a06cf3f61c)


### W3C Validation (HTML/CSS) 
All Html and CSS was tested using w3c validation and it came up with these errors shown below.
![Html validator 1 ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/4bdee8a7-d985-4e06-b9bc-d552c0e875cd)
![html validator 2](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/005a5ff7-30bc-431e-946e-476a3a08685c)
![CSS validator 3 ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/dd4fb4dd-57cc-43b3-b4da-5cd53063c34a) 

Here are screenshots of no errors found for both Html and CSS.
![No errors Html Validator ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/0d60fbfc-6c2e-4acf-86dd-5f3c7c8db347)
![Css validator no errors found ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/a8cb1508-fd82-4544-80b3-333e6a43610c)

### Lighthouse Performance
The website's responsiveness and performance was tested using Lighthouse. The website overall perfomance averages around 97-98 screenshots
are provided below. 
![Home page lighthouse status](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/a504b2ca-f3b4-4c46-ada7-ddf3c30ff9ed)
![Recipe Page lighthouse status ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/5bd8bb84-c360-49d3-9ca4-a09dd1800d01)
![New Recipe page lighthouse status](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/0554b464-5f8d-439a-ab98-2242e9ca6519)

### Testing User Expeerience UX
### User Goal

* The website's purpose is to allow the user to find share update and delete recipes. 

For the user to add a recipe they will need to click on the recipe tab on the navigation bar. They will be direct to the recipe page where the will see a add recipe button.

![recipe page (add recipe button)](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/f0cb2895-aa4f-415d-8ad8-f7685ec10581)

The user will be required to fill out a recipe form.

![Recipe Form ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/e256e2ef-f7dd-4505-8997-eb6c799beea0)

Once the recipe form is filled the user can click on the submit button.

![Submit Recipe button ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/79c1e02a-f8b8-4b1d-bb28-214cd7402b3f)

Then the user will be redirected back to the recipe page showing all the recipe details the user applied on the form. Here is an example on how it would look

![Recipe record added to recipe page](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/fb948d9f-b484-4ed9-9292-d36b336dcd9e)

At the very end of the recipe record the user will see the edit and delete button. 

![Edit   Delete buttons ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/6dbff3d0-0729-4645-91b7-75117c049d24)

If the user wants to update or change any records they've made then they can click on the edit button it will direct them to the edit recipe page.

![Edit Recipe page](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/012c1bb7-26dc-4a6a-b888-cd2d8e89c241)

Once they've made ammendments the record will be updated and the user will find their new details on the same recipe page. 

![Recipe edit example ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/3e8813d1-4dc3-4815-93bd-2aa78e65d741)

If the user wants to delete any recipes they've made in the past then they can do this by clicking on the delete button. A modal message will popup to inform the user that if they chose to delete the recipe then they won't be able to retrive the deleted record. The user has two options, they can cancel the request meaning that the recipe will still be available for the user to view. If the user still wishes to delete the recipe they can click the delete button once again then the recipe will be deleted. 

![Delete recipe example](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/d42ea296-7f46-4f10-9326-4dd378b1eb20)

---

## Deployment 
The whole purpose for this project is to build a back end application for the user to manipulate data. Gitpod only assigns to front end applications so we need to deploy the website via Heroku which operates back end applications. 

 To deploy this project you'll need to:
 
  1. Go to Heroku and navigate to the Deploy tab
  2. In the deployment method section, select "Connect to GitHub" 
  3. Search for this repo by typing Milestone Project 3 and click Connect
  4. Click Enable Automatic Deploys 
  5. In the Manual deploy , leave the branch on main and select Deploy Branch
  6. Click on the "more" (dropdown) button and select "Run Console"
  7. Type python3 into the console and click Run
  8. A terminal will show up in the terminal type in the command "from taskmanager import db" then "db.create_all()"
  9. Exit the Python terminal, by typing "exit()" and hitting enter, and close the console. 
  10. Once the app is up and running, click on the "Open app" then the app will run.

## DEBUG MODE 
Before deployment Debug mode was turn off by setting it to false to ensure that no errors will appear when opening the app. Here
is a screenshot to show that Debug mode is turned off. 
![Debug Mode turn off ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/027c272d-fb4c-433e-b268-a6e74934fa85)

---
## Credits
 ### Frameworks 
 * Materialize 1.0
    - Materialize was majoritively used to build the design of application and to keep it responive
 
 ### Media
 
 * Pexels.com
    - Pexels.com provided free photos to create the carousel for the home page and the background image.

Commit message:

Put in user stories in readme

README.md, after:

# Cookbook Recipes 



---
## Description
Cookbook Recipes is a Back end web application created using a relational database that allows users to store and easily access cooking recipes. It contains recipe cards that include fields such as description of the recipe, ingredients, preparation steps, cooking time, and many more. A CRUD function is coded, which means the user can create, locate, display, edit, and delete records. The website has three pages: the homepage, which has a carousel slide of recipes, the recipe page where all recipes are stored and the new recipe page where the user can create any recipe they desire. Once the recipe is created, a recipe card is stored on the recipe page. 

---
## User Experience UX

### User Stories
1.As a first-time visitor, I want clear and intuitive navigation and user interfaces that make it easy for me to interact with and enjoy the website's features.
2.As a first-time visitor, I want to view detailed recipe pages with clear instructions, ingredient lists, and images to help me decide which recipe to try.
3.As a first-time vistor I want to create recipes and would like to know where the recipes are stored.  
4.As a first-time and returning user, I want to edit and update my created recipes whenever I discover improvements or variations.
5.As a first-time visitor and returning user, I want to easily delete any recipes I've created that I no longer wish to keep on the website.

### User's goal

 * The website's purpose is to allow the user to find share update and delete recipes. 

---
## Design
   ### Colour Scheme
   * A background image showing a close up of cakes was used for the front end material 
   * Top navbar is colour #212121 (grey darken-4) with white text
   * Footer is colour #212121 (grey darken-4)   with white text
   * Form on add recipe page is colour #e3f2fd (blue lighten-5) with black text
   * Card is colour #212121 (grey darken-4) with white text and contains the edit button #2962ff  (btn blue accent-4) 
    and delete button (btn red)
---
## Features
  * Responsive on all device sizes 

  * Interactive elements
  ---
  ## Technologies Used 
  ### Languages Used
   * HTML5
   * CSS3
   * JavaScript
   * Python+Flask
   * PostgreSQL
---
## Frameworks
 * Materialize 1.0- Materialize is a modern responsive CSS framework based on Materialize Design which was used for this project mainly for
   the website's responsiveness. 
---
## Wireframes 
![New Wireframe 1](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/0e202e17-0472-41c5-86cb-353694c3c958)
![New Wireframe 2](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/977d8344-80c4-4224-a424-f72ebe5076a9)
![New Wireframe 3](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/b9b7f2c8-ad10-474b-b848-f18e561b8e51)
![New Wireframe 4](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/6880ab71-1385-4e96-93ee-4299f45fbfab)
![New Wireframe 5](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/15271c07-62b8-49d6-8281-8a1fed8ef921)
![New Wireframe 6](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/9096820d-63ed-453e-9e9d-37ff4573155f)
![New Wireframe 7](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/eb6a691c-9093-4a84-bc1d-4fbe62c626c7)
![New Wireframe 8](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/7e8e54e4-0215-4f9f-a4a4-2235031a4e8a)
![New Wireframe 9](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/513e4beb-ac3f-4780-9b14-e3e2d78bb5a3)
![New Wireframe 10](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/787ef0d3-e120-4d0a-847f-fba184abb742)
![New Wireframe 11](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/9bdeeed6-deed-451c-9c7d-4a2e5b91d837)
![New Wireframe 12](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/d3d476fd-d0a7-4ec5-8669-cb531e5887c1)

---
## Relationship Diagram (SQL)
This is the current setup of the relationship diagram used to build the relationship ids for the application.
![drawSQL-recipe-diagram-export-2023-09-23](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/e9c0ac21-efd0-4a8c-94d5-37bb5943c916)

This setup would be used for future developments to present additional elements.   
![drawSQL-recipe-diagram-export-2023-08-16](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/affc501c-67e3-442a-8442-b1f5eb7baff6)

---
## Testing 
### Manual testing

### CI Python Linter

All Python codes were tested using CI Python Linter here are screenshots of the error results
![init_py file testing results ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/f3adbc61-bfd2-4477-b259-bd19d6564fa4)
![routes file test results 2 ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/8aed67c7-d035-44a3-b17f-6a3397756a1c)
![routes file test results 1](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/55ed35ed-ffe6-4aaf-9967-316a6138d1d1)
![models file testing results ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/18b4c82c-cfdd-4272-b7d9-7eb15f5a7d11)
![run py file test results ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/a52f1c7b-7323-4a26-a140-56ba03ed6e7f) 

These are the screenshots that show resolved errors
![init py no errors](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/49b3bf8d-c594-40d5-b5cd-e65146007b50) 
![no errors route py file ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/d9e53a9a-1938-459d-8342-d081653491e6)
![run py no errors found ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/b3ec0e0a-02db-407c-ba75-4b554ce04e24)
![models (modified) ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/015afc4e-b546-4d68-836b-5fc4cfab84b5)

### JS HINT 
JS Hint was used to test JavaScript codes and came up with these results shown below 
![js validator](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/d8548f0e-91dc-4665-ab1c-6ec39c4d0996) 

Here is the modified verison of JavaScript code. All errors of code couldn't be fixed due to the style of code materialize structures
its code.
![js validator (modified)](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/b4ca1dfa-e810-494f-9e6a-42a06cf3f61c)


### W3C Validation (HTML/CSS) 
All Html and CSS was tested using w3c validation and it came up with these errors shown below.
![Html validator 1 ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/4bdee8a7-d985-4e06-b9bc-d552c0e875cd)
![html validator 2](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/005a5ff7-30bc-431e-946e-476a3a08685c)
![CSS validator 3 ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/dd4fb4dd-57cc-43b3-b4da-5cd53063c34a) 

Here are screenshots of no errors found for both Html and CSS.
![No errors Html Validator ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/0d60fbfc-6c2e-4acf-86dd-5f3c7c8db347)
![Css validator no errors found ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/a8cb1508-fd82-4544-80b3-333e6a43610c)

### Lighthouse Performance
The website's responsiveness and performance was tested using Lighthouse. The website overall perfomance averages around 97-98 screenshots
are provided below. 
![Home page lighthouse status](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/a504b2ca-f3b4-4c46-ada7-ddf3c30ff9ed)
![Recipe Page lighthouse status ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/5bd8bb84-c360-49d3-9ca4-a09dd1800d01)
![New Recipe page lighthouse status](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/0554b464-5f8d-439a-ab98-2242e9ca6519)

### Testing User Expeerience UX

### User Goal

* The website's purpose is to allow the user to find share update and delete recipes. 

For the user to add a recipe they will need to click on the recipe tab on the navigation bar. They will be direct to the recipe page where the will see a add recipe button.


The user will be required to fill out a recipe form.



Once the recipe form is filled the user can click on the submit button.


Then the user will be redirected back to the recipe page showing all the recipe details the user applied on the form. Here is an example on how it would look



At the very end of the recipe record the user will see the edit and delete button. 



If the user wants to update or change any records they've made then they can click on the edit button it will direct them to the edit recipe page.



Once they've made ammendments the record will be updated and the user will find their new details on the same recipe page. 



If the user wants to delete any recipes they've made in the past then they can do this by clicking on the delete button. A modal message will popup to inform the user that if they chose to delete the recipe then they won't be able to retrive the deleted record. The user has two options, they can cancel the request meaning that the recipe will still be available for the user to view. If the user still wishes to delete the recipe they can click the delete button once again then the recipe will be deleted. 



---

## Deployment 
The whole purpose for this project is to build a back end application for the user to manipulate data. Gitpod only assigns to front end applications so we need to deploy the website via Heroku which operates back end applications. 

 To deploy this project you'll need to:
 
  1. Go to Heroku and navigate to the Deploy tab
  2. In the deployment method section, select "Connect to GitHub" 
  3. Search for this repo by typing Milestone Project 3 and click Connect
  4. Click Enable Automatic Deploys 
  5. In the Manual deploy , leave the branch on main and select Deploy Branch
  6. Click on the "more" (dropdown) button and select "Run Console"
  7. Type python3 into the console and click Run
  8. A terminal will show up in the terminal type in the command "from taskmanager import db" then "db.create_all()"
  9. Exit the Python terminal, by typing "exit()" and hitting enter, and close the console. 
  10. Once the app is up and running, click on the "Open app" then the app will run.

## DEBUG MODE 
Before deployment Debug mode was turn off by setting it to false to ensure that no errors will appear when opening the app. Here
is a screenshot to show that Debug mode is turned off. 
![Debug Mode turn off ](https://github.com/A-Gr33n/Milestone-Project-3/assets/120597058/027c272d-fb4c-433e-b268-a6e74934fa85)

---
## Credits
 ### Frameworks 
 * Materialize 1.0
    - Materialize was majoritively used to build the design of application and to keep it responive
 
 ### Media
 
 * Pexels.com
    - Pexels.com provided free photos to create the carousel for the home page and the background image.
